.\" Copyright 2003-2010 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "shm" 3fr "22 feb 2010" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
sm_new,
sm_del,
sm_delall -
functions to create/destroy shared memory pages


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/shm.h>
.sp
.BI "int sm_new (int *" id ", int " size ");"
.BI "int sm_del (int " id ");"
.BI "int sm_delall ();"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B sm_new
This function creates a new non-named shared memory page of size
.IR size "(using "
shmget(2). The id is returned. The key is always set to 
.IR IPC_PRIVATE .
The page is automatically attached and inserted into internal structures
used to find the pages by sm_ptmap(3fr). The id to identify the page and
to be used inside shared memory pointers is returned in
.IR id .
.TP
.B sm_del
detaches and if owner destroy the page. The page is really only destroyed
when everybody has detached. Therefore it is marked as deleted (a flag
at the beginning of the page, that anyone can consult). Furthermore the
internal structure is deleted. The page can only be deleted if it is
mapped.
.TP
.B sm_delall
calls sm_del for all mapped shared pages.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shm "(3fr), "
.BR sm_start "(3fr), "
.BR sm_ptmap "(3fr), "
.BR sm_page_getinfo "(3fr), "
.BR sm_page_base "(3fr), "
.BR sm_page_size "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




