.\" Copyright 2003-2010 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "shm" 3fr "22 feb 2010" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
sm_start,
sm_delstart,
sm_stop,
sm_maydel -
functions to handle the startpage


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/shm.h>
.sp
.BI "int sm_start (char *" name ", int " size ", int " flags ");"
.BI "int sm_delstart ();"
.BI "int sm_stop ();"
.BI "int sm_maydel ();"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The startpage is a dedicated named shared page created by sm_fopen(3fr).
Non-named shared pages are identified by numerical ids. These are created
by sm_new(3fr). To access a "foreign" shared page one need to know the
id, these can be passed in shared pointers (see sm_ptmap(3fr)) which can
be used inside shared pages. However at one point you must start, and
this implementation does not make use of the key feature of shmat.
Therefore does exist a named shared page, where to find the first pointers
to the rest of the information.
.br
Naturally any named shared page can be used for that. There is no need for
a dedicated page. In older implementations however there had been only
one named shared page called startpage. These functions here do remain
for backward compatibility only.
.TP
.B sm_start
This function do create the startpage. It just calls sm_fopen() assuring
that the flag SM_F_STARTPAGE is set.
.TP
.B sm_delstart
destroys the startpage. This is identical to sm_fclose() passing the name
of the startpage and the flag SM_F_DESTROY.
.TP
.B sm_stop
is a combination of sm_delstart and sm_delall, hence it
destroys the startpage and deletes all pages created with sm_new(3fr).
No other named shared memory pages are destroyed.
.TP
.B sm_maydel
is identical to sm_stop, only that before deleting a page, it checks
wether the page is already marked as deleted.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shm "(3fr), "
.BR sm_fopen "(3fr), "
.BR sm_new "(3fr), "
.BR sm_delall "(3fr), "
.BR sm_ptmap "(3fr), "
.BR sm_startpage_getinfo "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




