.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "gzip" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
gzip,
gunzip,
bzip2,
bunzip2,
compress,
uncompress,
isgzip


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/gzip.h>
.sp
.BI "int gzip (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char **" out ", int *" outlen ", int " level ");"
.BI "int gunzip (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char **" out ", int *" outlen ");"
.sp
.BI "int bzip2 (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char **" out ", int *" outlen ", int " level ");"
.BI "int bunzip2 (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char **" out ", int *" outlen ");"
.sp
.BI "int compress (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char **" out ", int *" outlen ");"
.BI "int uncompress (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char **" out ", int *" outlen ");"
.sp
.BI "int isgzip (char *" in ", int " ilen ");"
.fi




.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B gzip
compresses the 
.I in
buffer using the programme gzip. The result is written to
.IR out .
.I level
is a number between 0 (no compression) and 9 (maximum compression). 
See gzip(1) for more details.
.TP
.B gunzip
uncompresses the 
.I in
buffer using the programme gzip. The result is written to
.IR out .
.TP
.B bzip2
compresses the 
.I in
buffer using the programme bzip2. The result is written to
.IR out .
.I level
is a number between 0 (no compression) and 9 (maximum compression). 
See gzip(1) for more details.
.TP
.B bunzip2
uncompresses the 
.I in
buffer using the programme bzip2. The result is written to
.IR out .
.TP
.B compress
compresses the 
.I in
buffer using the programme compress. The result is written to
.IR out .
.TP
.B uncompress
uncompresses the 
.I in
buffer using the programme compress. The result is written to
.IR out .
.TP
.B isgzip
checks wether the 
.I in
buffer contains a valid gzip - magic number.

.SH Note:
For compressing / decompressing the programme gzip / bzip2 or compress
is called using the function iopipe. The path to the single programmes
can be configured using prog[gzip]=... in the config file.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gzip "(1), "
.BR bzip2 "(1), "
.BR compress "(1), "
.BR iopipe "(3fr), "
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




