.\" Copyright 2003-2010 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "frlib_base" 3fr "24 feb 2010" "Frank Reker" "frlib"

.SH NAME
frlib - a collection of usefull functions and tool written by Frank Reker

.SH DESCRIPTION
The base section contains a variety of different functions. Here you'll
find an overview of what it contains.
.TP
.B frinit(3fr)
A function for initializing the frlib. It is not neccessary to initialize the
frlib, but wise doing so.
.TP
.B config(3fr)
The frlib contains a very powerfull config file parser.
A couple of frlib functions do make use of that and request variables from the 
config files, to make its behaviour configurable. See 
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr) "
for the format of the config file and for a set of config variables used by
the frlib.
.TP
.B secureconfig(3fr)
Sometimes certain configuration parameters, such as database passwords, ...
are not wise to write in cleartext to disk, but passing them all to the
running programmes by user intervention is neither a good idea. For
that the secureconfig functions provide a safe way to store such information,
in an encrypted config file. 
.TP
.B slog(3fr)
Functions for writing logmessages to logfiles or the syslog daemon.
.TP
.B bo(3fr)
Contains functions for byte order conversion.
.TP
.B rerr_getstr(3fr)
A function for getting error strings.
.TP
.B errors(5fr)
A list of error codes.
.TP
.B crc(3fr)
Functions for calculating a cyclic redundancy checksum.
.TP
.B dn(3fr)
Functions for handling destinguished names as used in ldap or ssl certificates.
.TP
.B gzip(3fr)
Contains a couple of (de-)compression functions.
.TP
.B frdaemonize(3fr)
A function to daemonize a programme.
.TP
.B iopipe(3fr)
Functions for executing commands, that read from stdin and write to stdout.
These functions can pass data to those programmes and read there output.
.TP
.B md5sum(3fr)
Calculates md5 and sha1 checksums.
.TP
.B numbits32(3fr)
Returns the number of 1 bits set in an integer.
.TP
.B procop(3fr)
Contains functions for process handling.
.TP
.B prtf(3fr)
printf like functions.
.TP
.B random(3fr)
Functions for returning random numbers.
.TP
.B setenv(3fr)
Functions for setting environment variables, working directory, ...
.TP
.B startprog(3fr)
Function for starting and eventually monitor other programmes.
.TP
.B once(3fr)
A "loop" that is executed exactly once. In other words a block that can be
left with break.
.TP
.B strcase(3fr)
A case like instruction for strings.
.TP
.B timeop(3fr)
Contains time operation functions.
.TP
.B textop(3fr)
Contains text/string processing functions.
.TP
.B fileop(3fr)
Contains file handling functions.
.TP
.B keymap(3fr)
Functions for key/value mapping.
.TP
.B frassert(3fr)
Assertion with logging functionality.
.TP
.B mutex(3fr)
Mutex functions, for process synchronisation.
.TP
.B roman(3fr)
Conversion for roman number.
.TP
.B stktr_prtstack(3fr)
prints a stack trace.
.TP
.B tlst(3fr)
Contains functions handling a tree list.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR config "(3fr), "
.BR secureconfig "(3fr), "
.BR slog "(3fr), "
.BR frinit "(3fr), "
.BR frdaemonize "(3fr), "
.BR numbits32 "(3fr), "
.BR procop "(3fr), "
.BR timeop "(3fr), "
.BR fileop "(3fr), "
.BR textop "(3fr), "
.BR prtf "(3fr), "
.BR timeop "(3fr), "
.BR random "(3fr), "
.BR iopipe "(3fr), "
.BR setenv "(3fr), "
.BR startprog "(3fr), "
.BR once "(3fr), "
.BR trcase "(3fr), "
.BR md5sum "(3fr), "
.BR bo "(3fr), "
.BR dn "(3fr), "
.BR crc "(3fr), "
.BR gzip "(3fr), "
.BR rerr_getstr "(3fr), "
.BR errors "(5fr), "
.BR keymap "(3fr), "
.BR frassert "(3fr), "
.BR mutex "(3fr), "
.BR roman "(3fr), "
.BR stktr_prtstack "(3fr), "
.BR tlst "(3fr), "
.BR frlib.log "(5fr), "
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




