.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "scf_read" 3fr "15 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
scf_read,
scf_fdread,
scf_readpass,
scf_askread,
scf_reread,
scf_free


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/secureconfig.h>
.sp
.BI "int scf_read (char *" passwd ");"
.BI "int scf_fdread (int " fd ");"
.BI "int scf_readpass (int " fd ", char *" passwd ", int *" len ");"
.BI "int scf_askread ();"
.BI "int scf_reread ();"
.BI "int scf_free ();"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B scf_read
reads the secure config file, decrypts it using the password provided as
parameter and parses the config file using the cf_parse(3fr) and 
cf_register_cv_list(3fr) functions.
.br
After that the config variables are available by the usual cf_get... 
functions.
.br
If there is no secure_cf config file variable nothing is done. If you
want to use an explicit secure config file, you must use scf_decrypt(3fr)
directly.
.TP
.B scf_fdread
if the file descriptor is greater or equal zero the password is read
from that file descriptor using scf_readpass(3fr) and passed it 
to scf_read(3fr). If the file descriptor is less than zero, the function
scf_askread(3fr) is called.
.TP
.B scf_readpass
reads the password from a given file descriptor.
.TP
.B scf_askread
asks for the passphrase using scf_askverifypass(3fr) and if successfull it
is passed to scf_read().
.br
If there is no 
.I secure_cf
variable in the ordinary config file, no password is queried.
.br
.B Note:
The password is read from terminal. When writing graphical programmes this
function (as well as scf_fdread) shall not be used.
.TP
.B scf_reread
rereads the secure config file. This function is rarely called manually.
But it is registered as callback function using cf_register_reread_callback(3fr).
Hence when using the cf_reread(3fr) even the secure config file is reread.
.TP
.B scf_free
frees all buffers, variables and callback functions set by scf_read(3fr).



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR secureconfig "(3fr), "
.BR config "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




