.\" Copyright 2003-2011 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "cal" 3fr "01 may 2011" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
frlib - calendar functions, to handle calendar and time based functionality


.SH DESCRIPTION
This section contains a collection of time and calendar based functionality.
Yet it does contain the following sub categories:
.TP
.BR tz " and " tzcorrect
.B tz(3fr) 
does contain a parser for timezone information. That is, it can parse
the posix timezone variable, and the timezone database used on many
un*x systems nowadays.
.B tzcorrect(3fr) does contain functions to convert from utc to local
time and vice versa (including leap second handling).
.TP
.B crule
stands for calendar rule, and make it possible to handle timezone information,
and other calendar rules, such as the gregorian reform with a single
integer. This is used by other calendar functions. See 
.B crule(3fr)
for details.
.TP
.B cjg
stands for Julian-Gregorian Calendar, and handles the most wide spread
calendar system nowadays. See
.B cjg(3fr)
for more detail.
.TP
.B romkal
functions to print out or parse a date in latin, e.g.
.nf
ante diem III kalendas aprilias MMDCCLXIV ab urbe condita
.fi
correspondes to the 30 march 2764 ab urbe condita or 2011 a.d.
However these functions don't use the old roman calendar (prior
to caesar), but do use the julian-gregorian calendar. only that
they calculate in ab urbe condita (since the foundation of
the city of rome in 753 bc).
See
.B romkal(3fr)
for more details.
.TP
.B tmo
Does contain now depricated functions. They remain here for
backward compatibility, but should not be used any more.
Therfore they are not documented. Some of them are still
documented in timeop(3fr).


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tz "(3fr), "
.BR tzcorrect "(3fr), "
.BR crule "(3fr), "
.BR cjg "(3fr), "
.BR romkal "(3fr), "
.BR timeop "(3fr), "
.BR tzset "(3), "
.BR tzfile "(5), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




