.\" Copyright 2003-2011 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "cjg" 3fr "02 may 2011" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
frlib - calendar
implementation of the julian-gregorian calendar.

.SH HISTORY
The julian calendar goes back to Julius Caesar who reformed the old
roman calendar in 46 BC. The new calendar was a pure solar calendar,
while the old calendar was luni-solar. Caesar was inspired by the
egyptian calendar, and so he even adopted the 4 year leap-year rule
from the egyptians. After Caesars death the romans aplied a 3 year
leap-year rule, which caused a shift in the calendar, which was
corrected by Augustus. Tellings to which Augustus remodeled the
whole calendar are most likely only legends. The 4 year rule however
is still to much, so under the pope Gregory XIII a reform was 
aplied. The new calendar named gregorian calendar differs only in
the leap-year rule and the easter feast calculation. Further more
10 days were left out (from 5th october to 14th october 1582) to
synchronize the calendar with the council of Nicea in 325.
.br
Nowadays the gregorian calendar is used in most countries of the world.
Even thu a lot of countries have their own calendar system, it is
often only used for calculating national ond religious feasts. While
for civil use the gregorian calendar dominates
in most countries.

.SH The Gregorian Reform
The introduction of the new calendar by pope Gregory XIII was in october
1582. In that year the 4th october was followed by the 15th october.
Those days only the catholic countries introduced the new calendar.
The protestantic countries followed later on different dates. England,
and together with England a lot of other protestantic countries
switch in september 1752 (from 2/9 to 14/9). Orthodox countries switched
only in the 20th century but only for civil use. The orthodox churches
still use the julian calendar to calculate the religious feasts.
.sp
Sweden wanted to go its own way and drop all leap years between 1700 and
1740 and afterwards use the gregorian calendar. In 1700 they droped the
leap year, but not in 1704 and 1708. So in 1712 they inserted 2 leap days
the 29th and 30th february, and used again the julian calendar. Finally
they switched in 1752 together with England.
.sp
This implementation can handle any date you specify as reform, and even
the special case sweden. However it cannot handle more than one switch.
In some former european colonies the switch took place more than once.
E.g. Florida originally was spanish, so they had the gregorian calendar
from 1582 on. Later it became british and thus switched back to julian
calendar and 1752 again to gregorian.


.SH DESCRIPTION
This implementation provides function to breakdown a timestamp
in microseconds till 1970 into a structure cjg_bd_t. (See
.B cjg_breakdown(3fr) 
for details). Functions to compose a broken down structure to
a timestamp. Functions to print
.BR "" "(" cjg_strftime(3fr) ")"
a time/date in various formats and to parse a string 
representation of a date
.BR "" "(" cjg_strptime(3fr) ")."



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cjg_breakdown "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_compose "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_strftime "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_strptime "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_getyear "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_prttimestr "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_isleap "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_rulesetreform "(3fr), "
.BR crule "(3fr), "
.BR tz "(3fr), "
.BR tzcorrect "(3fr), "
.BR romkal "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




