.\" Copyright 2003-2011 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "cjg_rulesetreform" 3fr "03 may 2011" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
cjg_rulesetreform,
cjg_defreform,
cjg_rulesetdef,
cjg_ruledel -
functions to handle calendar rules for the julian gregorian
calendar.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/cal/cjg.h>
.sp
.BI "int cjg_rulesetreform (int " rul ", int " reform ");"
.BI "int cjg_rulesetreform (int " rul ", " CJG_REF_DATE ", int " year ", int " mon ", int " day ");"
.BI "int cjg_defreform (int " reform ");"
.BI "int cjg_rulesetdef (struct cjg_rule*" rul ");"
.BI "int cjg_ruledel (struct cjg_rule*" rul ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B cjg_rulesetreform
Sets the reform for given rule. For available reforms see below. If reform is
.IR CJG_REF_DATE ", "
then the function takes additionally the year, month and day as int.
.B Note: The function is implemented with a variable argument list, which 
means, that no automatic casting is performed for year, mon and day.
The date must be the first day in the gregorian calendar.
.TP
.B cjg_defreform
Sets the deault reform as obtained by 
.IR CJG_REF_DEF .
The CJG_REF_DEF reform is used as default for crule(3fr) initialization.
.B Note:
cjg_defreform can not handle CJG_REF_DATE.
.TP
.B cjg_rulesetdef
initializes the cjg_rule structure with the default rule. This function is
used internally by the crul_new(3fr) function.
.TP
.B cjg_ruledel
actually does nothing, but is needed by the crul_del(3fr) function.

.SH REFORM
The available reforms are:
.TP
.B CJG_REF_DEF
The default reform as set by 
.IR cjg_defreform .
.TP
.B CJG_REF_JUL
uses always julian calendar, as if the gregorian never would have been 
introduced.
.TP
.B CJG_REF_GREG
uses always gregorian calendar.
.TP
.B CJG_REF_1582
uses the 1582 reform (15th october 1582).
.TP
.B CJG_REF_1752
uses the 1752 reform (14th september 1752).
.TP
.B CJG_REF_SWEDEN
uses the special case for Sweden.
.TP
.B CJG_REF_DATE
uses a user specified date. The date must be the firt date of the gregorian
calender.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cjg "(3fr), "
.BR crule "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




