.\" Copyright 2003-2011 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "cjg_getyear" 3fr "03 may 2011" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
cjg_getweekday,
cjg_getdayofyear,
cjg_getdaysince1970,
cjg_getyear -
convenient function to get just one information from a timestamp.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/cal/cjg.h>
.sp
.BI "int cjg_getweekday (tmo_t " tstamp ");"
.BI "int cjg_getdayofyear (tmo_t " tstamp ");"
.BI "int cjg_getdaysince1970 (tmo_t " tstamp ");"
.BI "tmo_t cjg_getyear (tmo_t " tstamp ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
These function call
.I cjg_breakdown
with rule set to
.I CRUL_TZ_CJG
and flags to 0 (only cjg_getdaysince1970 uses the flag 
.IR CJG_F_DAYTIME ).
Then the functions do return the requested information.
.TP
.B cjg_getweekday
returns the weekday between 0 = monday and 6 = sunday.
.TP
.B cjg_getdayofyear
returns the day of year (between 1 and 366).
.TP
.B cjg_getdaysince1970
returns the days since 1970. Day 0 is the 1st january 1970.
.TP
.B cjg_getyear
returns the year since the supposed birth of christ. Years before
christ are negative.
.B Note: 
There is no year 0. Years jump from -1 (1 BC) to 1 (1 AD).


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cjg_breakdown "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_strftime "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_strptime "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_prttimestr "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_isleap "(3fr), "
.BR cjg "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




