.\" Copyright 2003-2011 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "crule" 3fr "02 may 2011" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
crul_new,
crul_del,
crul_get,
crul_tzset,
crul_tzset2 -
function to handle calendar rules

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/cal/crule.h>
.sp
.BI "int crul_new (int " type ");"
.BI "int crul_del (int " num ");"
.BI "int crul_get (struct crul_t **" rul ", int " num ");"
.BI "int crul_tzset (int " num ", int " tz ");"
.BI "int crul_tzset2 (int " num ", char *" tzstr ");"
.fi



.SH DESCRIPTION
A calendar rule is an integer, that represents an internal structure to hold
timezone information and calendar specific settings. For the julian-gregorian
calendar it holds the gregorian reform (see cjg(3fr)).
.br
To modify the calendar specific settings one need to call the apropriate
functions the calendar implementation offers. The timezone information can
be altered using crul_tzset (see below).
.TP
.B crul_new
creates a new calendar rule, and initializes it with its default values for the
given calender type, and the default timezone.
.TP
.B crul_del
removes a calendar rule from the system. The standard calendar rules cannot be
removed.
.TP
.B crul_get
returns the structure corresponding to the given rule.
.TP
.B crul_tzset
alters the timezone information in the rule. The timezone is an integer returned
by ctz_set(3fr), or one of the predifined timezones.
.TP
.B crul_tzset2
alters the timezone information in the rule taking a timezone specification as 
input.

.SH DEFAULT RULES
The calendar type, passed to crul_new, can even be used as a default rule for that
calendar type. The default rule can be modified as any other rule, but cannot be
removed by crul_del.
.br
Yet only the julian gregorian calendar is implemented.
.TP
.B CRUL_T_CJG
The julian gregorian calendar. See cjg(3fr) for more details.
.TP
.B CRUL_T_UTC
This is still the julian gregorian calendar, but initialized with UTC
instead of the default timezone.



.SH THREAD SAFETY
The functions crul_new and crul_del are 
.B NOT
thread safe.
.B crul_get
is not thread safe at its first call. Afterwards it is. Furthermore,
at its first call it initializes the timezone functions. So it is wise
to call this function once before creating threads.
The function crul_tzset is thread safe. crul_tzset2 is not, because it
relies on ctz_set(3fr).


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tz "(3fr), "
.BR tzcorrect "(3fr), "
.BR tzset "(3), "
.BR tzfile "(5), "
.BR cjg "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




