.\" Copyright 2003-2011 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "romkal" 3fr "02 may 2011" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
romandate,
romandateparse -
function to print out or parse dates in latin.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/cal/romkal.h>
.sp
int romandate (char *tstr, int tlen, struct cjg_bd_t *tbd, int flags);
int romandateparse (char *tstr, struct cjg_bd_t *tbd, int flags);
.fi


.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B ROMKAL_F_ABBR
use abbreviated names. (e.g. A.D. instead of ANTE DIEM). (romandate only)
.TP
.B ROMKAL_F_LCASE
use all lower case letters. (romandate only)
.TP
.B ROMKAL_F_UCASE
use all upper case letters. (romandate only)
.TP
.B ROMKAL_F_NOZERO
don't zero cjg_bd_t structure before filling with the parsed date. 
(romandateparse only)


.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions are helper functions for cjg_strftime(3fr) and 
cjg_strptime(3fr), but can be used separately as well.
.TP
.B romandate
prints out a date in old roman format, e.g.:
.sp
ante diem VI Nonas Maias MMDCCLXIV ab urbe condita
.TP
.B romandateparse
this function parses a date in old roman format and fills in
the cjg_bd_t structure.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cjg "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_strftime "(3fr), "
.BR cjg_strptime "(3fr), "
.BR roman "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




