.\" Copyright (c) 1999 by Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.TH BUFGETREF 3fr  "July 16, 1999" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
bufgetref, bufcount 
\- gets direct access to the buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include\ <fr/buffer.h>
.sp
.BI void\ *\ bufgetref\ (BUFFER\ buf);
.sp
.BI u_int32_t\ bufcount\ (BUFFER\ buf);
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
On null and mem buffers as well as block buffers
.B bufgetref\ ()
returns a NULL pointer. On file buffers it returns the file pointer
(of type FILE *) of the temporary file used as buffer casted to a
.B void
pointer. On cont buffers a pointer to the internal variable 
.I buffer 
is returned. Hence the returned pointer is of type
.B char\ **
casted to a void pointer. This is necessary, cause the pointer 
.I buffer 
may change after a realloc ().
To get access to the string you might use an expression such as:
.nf
.nl
.fi
.B *(char\ **)\ bufgetref\ (buf);
.PP
.B bufcount\ ()
returns one for file and null buffers. For cont buffers it returns the
amount of the allocated memory of the buffer string.
For mem and block buffers it returns the number of used structures in the 
linked list.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
On error bufgetref returns a NULL pointer and bufcount returns zero.
Otherwise see above.
.SH "BUGS"
You may not realloc () the buffer string in a cont buffer, cause
you cannot change the internal variable bufferlen, which stores
the amount of the allocated memory for that buffer string.
.nf
.nl
.fi
Bugreport to Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>.
Please describe the problem as detailed as possible, and assure that
it is not a bug in your application. If possible append an example
program that shows the bug to your mail. Corrections in the library are
welcome, too.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR buffer "(3fr), " bufevallen (3fr),
.BR bufgetstr (3fr)
