.\" Copyright (c) 1999 by Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.TH BUFOPEN 3fr  "July 16, 1999" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
bufopen
\- creates a new buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include\ <fr/buffer.h>
.sp
.BI BUFFER\ bufopen\ (int\ buffer_type,\ u_int32_t\ flags);
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bufopen\ ()
creates a new buffer. A pointer to this buffer is returned. The pointer is of 
type BUFFER. 
bufopen () takes the buffer type as input. It might be
.B BUF_TYPE_NULL
\- This is only a dummy buffer. All operations are allowed on this buffer 
type, but nothing is buffered.
.B BUF_TYPE_MEM
\- This type uses a linked list of strings as buffer. The strings may vary in 
length.
.B BUF_TYPE_CONT
\- One long string is used as buffer. If this string becomes too small, a 
realloc () is performed.
.B BUF_TYPE_BLOCK
\- As with mem buffers, a linked list of strings is used for buffering, but
the strings are of constant length (1024 B by default). This in the average
case does avoid to many mallocs.
.B BUF_TYPE_FILE
\- This type uses a temporary file as buffer. 
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a pointer to the buffer. It is of type 
.B BUFFER.
If an error occurs NULL is returned.
.SH "BUGS"
Bugreport to Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>.
Please describe the problem as detailed as possible, and assure that
it is not a bug in your application. If possible append an example
program that shows the bug to your mail. Corrections in the library are
welcome, too.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR buffer "(3fr), " bufsetflags "(3fr), " bufsetmaxsize (3fr),
.BR bufsetmaxmemsize (3fr)
