.\" Copyright (c) 1999 by Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.TH BUFPRINTOUT 3fr  "July 16, 1999" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
bufprintout, bufnprintout, bufgetstr, bufgetstr2, bufprints, bufnprints
\- writes the buffer to a string or a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include\ <fr/buffer.h>
.sp
.BI int\ bufprintout\ (BUFFER\ buf,\ FILE\ *\ f);
.sp
.BI int\ bufnprintout\ (BUFFER\ buf,\ FILE\ *\ f,\ u_int32_t\ len);
.sp
.BI char\ *\ bufgetstr\ (BUFFER\ buf);
.sp
.BI int\ bufgetstr2\ (BUFFER\ buf,\ char\ **dest);
.sp
.BI int\ bufprints\ (BUFFER\ buf,\ char\ *\ dest);
.sp
.BI int\ bufnprints\ (BUFFER\ buf,\ char\ *\ dest,\ u_int32_t\ len);
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bufprintout\ ()
prints the contents of the buffer to the file pointed to by 
.I f.
The file must be open for writing. 
.PP
.B bufgetstr\ ()
prints the contents of the buffer to a string. The string is malloc'd.
A pointer to that string is returned.
.PP
.B bufgetstr2\ ()
like bufgestr() but the malloc'ed buffer is returned as parameter.
.PP
.B bufprints\ ()
prints the contents of the buffer to 
.I dest.
.PP
.BR bufnprints() and bufnprintout()
are identical to bufprints() and bufprintout() respectively, only that they
limit the number of written bytes to
.I len.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
bufgetstr () returns a pointer to the allocated string or a NULL pointer
on error.
The other functions do return an frlib error code (RERR_OK on success).
.SH "BUGS"
Bugreport to Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>.
Please describe the problem as detailed as possible, and assure that
it is not a bug in your application. If possible append an example
program that shows the bug to your mail. Corrections in the library are
welcome, too.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR buffer "(3fr), " bufgetref (3fr)
