.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "process operations" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
pop_parentof,
pop_numchild,
pop_getcmdname

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/procop.h>
.sp
.BI "int pop_parentof (pid_t *" ppid ", pid_t " pid ");"
.BI "int pop_numchild (int *" numchild ", pid_t " pid ");"
.BI "int pop_getcmdname (char *" name ", int " size ", pid_t " pid ");"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B pop_parentof
returns the id of the father process of a given process.
.TP
.B pop_numchild
returns the number of child processes a given process has.
.TP
.B pop_getcmdname
returns the command name of a given process id. The output is written
to
.IR name .
.I size
gives the maximum number of bytes (including the terminating NUL character)
written.

.SH NOTE:
All three functions do use the proc file system which needs to be mounted 
at /proc. Otherwise the functions will fail with a RERR_SYSTEM.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




