.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "dn" 3fr "11 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
dn_split,
dn_cmp,
dn_cmp_struct,
dn_getpart,
dn_hfree,
dn_cpy
\- functions to handle destinguished names.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/dn.h>
.sp
.BI "#define DN_NULL"
.sp
.BI "int dn_split (struct dn *" dns ", char *" dn ");"
.BI "int dn_cmp (char *" dn1 ", char *" dn2 ");"
.BI "int dn_cmp_struct (struct dn *" dn1 ", struct dn *" dn2 ");"
.BI "char * dn_getpart (struct dn *" dn ", char *" var ");"
.sp
.BI "int dn_hfree (struct dn *" dn ");"
.BI "int dn_cpy (struct dn *" dn1 ", struct dn *" dn2 ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B dn_split
splits a destinguished name into a list of variable / value pairs.
The list is then sorted lexicographical (only variable part, the values
are left in unchanged order).
.TP
.B dn_cmp
compares two destinguished names. The function returns 0 if both are
equal -1 if the first is considered "smaller" than the second one
and +1 if it is considered "bigger".
.br
A destinguished name is considered smaller if it contains less elements or
comparing each element (first variable then value) after sorting (see dn_split).
The variable part is compared case insensitive and the value case sensitive.
.TP
.B dn_cmp_struct
like dn_cmp, but compares destinguished names already split.
.TP
.B dn_getpart
returns the value part of the first appearance of given variable.
.TP
.B dn_cpy
copies a split destinguished name.
.TP
.B dn_hfree
frees a split destinguished name. To avoid calling this function to an
unitialized structure (which might result in a segmentation fault),
initialize the structure using the macro DN_NULL.
.nf
struct dn mydn = DN_NULL;
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




