.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "ishex" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
iswhite,
isnum,
range,
ishex,
isoctal,
ISB64CHAR,
top_isnum


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/textop.h>
.sp
.BI "#define iswhite(" c ")"
.BI "#define isnum(" c ")"
.BI "#define range(" c "," l "," u ")"
.BI "#define ishex(" c ")"
.BI "#define isoctal(" c ")"
.BI "#define ISB64CHAR(" c ")"
.BI "int top_isnum (char *" str ");"


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B iswhite
returns 1 when given char is a white space. This macro is identical
to isspace(3). I always misstyped it, so I defined it ;-)
.TP
.B isnum
returns 1 when given char i a digit. This macro is identical to
isdigit(3).
.TP
.B range
returns 1 if given char is in range between 
.IR l " and " u " (inclusive)."
.TP
.B ishex
returns 1 if given char is a hex digit (i.e. 0-9, a-z or A-Z).
.TP
.B isoctal
returns 1 if given char is a octal digit (i.e. 0-7).
.TP
.B ISB64CHAR
returns 1 if given char is a base64 char (i.e. 0-9, A-Z, a-Z, /, + or =).
.TP
.B top_isnum
returns 1 if the entire string is a decimal number, otherwise 0 is returned.

.SH NOTE
Apart of top_isnum, all functions are implemented as macros.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR isspace "(3), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




