.\" Copyright 2003-2010 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "text operations" 3fr "24 feb 2010" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
iswhite,
isnum,
range,
ishex,
isoctal,
ISB64CHAR,
top_gethexnum,
top_base64decode,
top_base64encode,
top_base64encode_short,
top_base32encode_short,
top_dos2unix,
top_unix2dos,
top_getline,
top_getfield,
top_findchar,
top_findstr,
top_striplncomment,
top_skipwhite,
top_skipwhiteplus,
top_stripwhite,
top_delcr,
top_atoi64,
top_atou64,
top_isnum,
utf2wchar_char,
utf2wchar_str,
utf8ucs2_char,
utf8ucs2,
utf8ucs4_char,
utf8ucs4,
wchar2utf_str,
wchar2utf_char,
wchar2utf_len,
wchar2utf_charlen,
ucs2utf8,
ucs2utf8_char,
ucs2utf8_len,
ucs2utf8_charlen,,
ucs4utf8,
ucs4utf8_char,
ucs4utf8_len,
ucs4utf8_charlen,
utf8blen,
utf8clen,
utf8tlen,
utf8bcmp,
utf8ccmp,
utf8tcmp,
utf8lcmp,
top_lat1utf8,
top_utf8lat1


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.BR iswhite ", " isnum ", " range ", " ishex ", " isoctal ", " ISB64CHAR
Macros for character checking like isalnum(3).
.TP
.B top_gethexnum
Function for converting hex numbers from string to integer.
.TP
.BR top_base64decode ", " top_base64encode ", " top_base64encode_short ", " top_base32encode_short
Functions for base 64/32 (en/de)-coding
.TP
.BR top_dos2unix ", " top_unix2dos
Converts text from to dos line termination.
.TP
.BR top_getline ", " top_getfield
Splits text in lines / fields.
.TP
.BR top_findchar ", " top_findstr
Finding characters or strings in strings.
.TP
.BR top_striplncomment ", " top_skipwhite ", " top_skipwhiteplus ", " top_stripwhite
Strips away white spaces or line comments (e.g. everything from # to line end) in strings.
.TP
.B top_delcr
Deletes carrage return characters in texts.
.TP
.BR top_atoi64 ", " top_atou64
String to integer convertion for 64 bit integers.
.TP
.B top_isnum
checks wether a string is a number.
.TP
.B Unicode conversion functions.
The frlib contains a couple of functions for converting between utf8, 
utf16 and utf32.
These functions are:
.BR utf2wchar_char ", "
.BR utf2wchar_str ", "
.BR utf8ucs2_char ", "
.BR utf8ucs2 ", "
.BR utf8ucs4_char ", "
.BR utf8ucs4 ", "
.BR wchar2utf_str ", "
.BR wchar2utf_char ", "
.BR wchar2utf_len ", "
.BR wchar2utf_charlen ", "
.BR ucs2utf8 ", "
.BR ucs2utf8_char ", "
.BR ucs2utf8_len ", "
.BR ucs2utf8_charlen ", "
.BR ucs4utf8 ", "
.BR ucs4utf8_char ", "
.BR ucs4utf8_len ", "
.BR ucs4utf8_charlen
.TP
.BR utf8blen ", " utf8clen ", " utf8tlen
Functions for calculating the string length in utf8 encoded strings.
.TP
.BR utf8bcmp ", " utf8ccmp ", " utf8tcmp ", " utf8lcmp
Functions for comparing two utf8 strings.
.TP
.BR top_lat1utf8 ", " top_utf8lat1
Converts strings between latin1 and utf8.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iswhite "(3fr), "
.BR isnum "(3fr), "
.BR range "(3fr), "
.BR ishex "(3fr), "
.BR isoctal "(3fr), "
.BR ISB64CHAR "(3fr), "
.BR top_gethexnum "(3fr), "
.BR top_base64decode "(3fr), "
.BR top_base64encode "(3fr), "
.BR top_base64encode_short "(3fr), "
.BR top_base32encode_short "(3fr), "
.BR top_dos2unix "(3fr), "
.BR top_unix2dos "(3fr), "
.BR top_getline "(3fr), "
.BR top_getfield "(3fr), "
.BR top_findchar "(3fr), "
.BR top_findstr "(3fr), "
.BR top_striplncomment "(3fr), "
.BR top_skipwhite "(3fr), "
.BR top_skipwhiteplus "(3fr), "
.BR top_stripwhite "(3fr), "
.BR top_delcr "(3fr), "
.BR top_atoi64 "(3fr), "
.BR top_atou64 "(3fr), "
.BR top_isnum "(3fr), "
.BR utf2wchar_char "(3fr), "
.BR utf2wchar_str "(3fr), "
.BR utf8ucs2_char "(3fr), "
.BR utf8ucs2 "(3fr), "
.BR utf8ucs4_char "(3fr), "
.BR utf8ucs4 "(3fr), "
.BR wchar2utf_str "(3fr), "
.BR wchar2utf_char "(3fr), "
.BR wchar2utf_len "(3fr), "
.BR wchar2utf_charlen "(3fr), "
.BR ucs2utf8 "(3fr), "
.BR ucs2utf8_char "(3fr), "
.BR ucs2utf8_len "(3fr), "
.BR ucs2utf8_charlen "(3fr), ",
.BR ucs4utf8 "(3fr), "
.BR ucs4utf8_char "(3fr), "
.BR ucs4utf8_len "(3fr), "
.BR ucs4utf8_charlen "(3fr), "
.BR utf8blen "(3fr), "
.BR utf8clen "(3fr), "
.BR utf8tlen "(3fr), "
.BR utf8bcmp "(3fr), "
.BR utf8ccmp "(3fr), "
.BR utf8tcmp "(3fr), "
.BR utf8lcmp "(3fr), "
.BR top_lat1utf8 "(3fr), "
.BR top_utf8lat1 "(3fr), "
.BR frlib_base "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




