.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "top_skipwhite" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
top_skipwhite,
top_skipwhiteplus,
top_stripwhite,
top_striplncomment


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/textop.h>
.sp
.BI "#define TOP_F_NONE          " 0x00
.BI "#define TOP_F_DQUOTE        " 0x01
.BI "#define TOP_F_SQUOTE        " 0x02
.BI "#define TOP_F_STRIPMIDDLE   " 0x04
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPWHITE   " 0x08
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSTRIPWHITE  " 0x10
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOCR          " 0x20
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPBLANK   " 0x40
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPCOMMENT " 0x80
.sp
.BI "char *top_skipwhite (char *" str ");"
.BI "char *top_skipwhiteplus (char *" str ", char *" toskip ");"
.BI "char *top_stripwhite (char *" str ", int " flags ");"
.BI "char *top_striplncomment (char *" ptr ", char *" cmtstr ", int " flags ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B top_skipwhite
returns a pointer to the first non whitespace character in 
.IR str .
.TP
.B top_skipwhiteplus
returns a pointer to the first non whitespace character in 
.IR str ", that's "
not in toskip. In other words all white spaces and all chars in toskip at
beginning of line are skipped, and a pointer behind that is returned.
.TP
.B top_stripwhite
like top_skipwhite. In addition whitespaces at end of line are stripped away.
If the flag TOP_F_STRIPMIDDLE is given, whitespaces in the middle of a
line are reduced to a single space (see flags section below).
.TP
.B top_striplncomment
strips away everything that begins with 
.I cmtstr
until end of line. 
When TOP_F_DQUOTE or TOP_F_SQUOTE is given, the appearance of cmtstr
inside quotes are ignored.



.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B TOP_F_DQUOTE
if this flag is given, line comments and field separators are ignored 
when inside double quotes. 
When combined with TOP_F_SQUOTE, single
quotes inside double quotes are ignored as well.
.TP
.B TOP_F_SQUOTE
if this flag is given, line comments and field separators are ignored 
when inside single quotes.
When combined with TOP_F_DQUOTE, double
quotes inside single quotes are ignored as well.
.TP
.B TOP_F_STRIPMIDDLE
If this flag is given, white spaces are converted to spaces and
sequences of white spaces in the middle of a 
line are reduced to a single space.
.br
.B Note:
When combined with TOP_F_DQUOTE and/or TOP_F_SQUOTE, whitespaces
inside quotes are converted, too.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOSKIPWHITE
If this flag is given, white spaces at beginning of line are not
skipped.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOSTRIPWHITE
If this flag is given, white spaces at end of line are not stripped
away.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOSKIPCOMMENT
with this flag line comments are not stripped away, hence 
top_striplncomment does do nothing.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOCR
does do nothing with these functions.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR top_findchar "(3fr), "
.BR top_getline "(3fr), "
.BR errors "(5fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




