.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "base64" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
top_base64decode,
top_base64encode,
top_base64encode_short,
top_base32encode_short


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/textop.h>
.sp
.BI "int top_base64decode (char *" in ", char **" out ", int *" outlen ");"
.BI "int top_base64encode (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char **" out ");"
.BI "int top_base64encode_short (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char *" out ");"
.BI "int top_base32encode_short (char *" in ", int " inlen ", char *" out ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B top_base64encode
encodes an 
.I in-
buffer into base64. The result is written to out. The buffer is allocated and
needs to be freed.
.TP
.B top_base64encode_short
like top_base64encode, but does not make any line breaks. It is intended for 
short messages. Unlike top_base64encode, the out-buffer must be allocated
by the caller. The caller must take care that the result fits into the
allocated buffer (not to forget the terminating NUL-character).
You can calculate the buffersize by: inlen*4/3+4
.TP
.B top_base64decode
decodes a base64 encoded 
.I in-
buffer. The result is written to an allocated buffer returned in
.I out.
If 
.I outlen
is given, the length of the out-buffer is returned in it.
.TP
.B top_base32encode_short
like top_base64encode_short, but a base32 encoding is used.
For encoding the characters A-Z and 0-5 are used.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR errors "(5fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




