.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "latin1 to utf8" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
top_lat1utf8,
top_utf8lat1


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/textop.h>
.sp
.BI "int top_lat1utf8 (char *" dest ", char *" src ", int " max ");"
.BI "int top_utf8lat1 (char *" dest ", char *" src ", int " max ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B top_lat1utf8
converts a string in latin1 (iso8859-1) into an utf8 string. If 
.I max
is a positive number at most max bytes are written to
.IR dest " (including "
the terminating NUL-character).
.br
.B Note:
The dest-buffer must be allocated. The size will be at most 2*strlen(src)+1.
In most cases however the real size is much smaller, generally only a few
bytes larger than strlen(src).
.TP
.B top_utf8lat1
converts a string in utf8 encoding into a latin1 string. Characters,
than are not convertable, are converted to 0xFF. If
.I max
is a positive number at most max bytes are written to
.IR dest " (including "
the terminating NUL-character).
.br
.B Note:
The dest-buffer must be allocated. The size will be at most strlen(src)+1,
and in most case won't be much smaller.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR errors "(5fr), "
.BR utf8ucs2 "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




