.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "top_getline" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
top_getline,
top_getfield


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/textop.h>
.sp
.BI "#define TOP_F_NONE          " 0x00
.BI "#define TOP_F_DQUOTE        " 0x01
.BI "#define TOP_F_SQUOTE        " 0x02
.BI "#define TOP_F_STRIPMIDDLE   " 0x04
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPWHITE   " 0x08
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSTRIPWHITE  " 0x10
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOCR          " 0x20
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPBLANK   " 0x40
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPCOMMENT " 0x80
.sp
.BI "char *top_getline (char **" ptr ", int " flags ");"
.BI "char *top_getfield (char **" ptr ", char *" sep ", int " flags ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B top_getline
returns the actual line, while the
.I ptr
is updated to point to the next line.
The line-terminating character is substituted by a NUL-character.
Either carrage return (0x0d) and linefeed character (0x0a) are treated
as line-terminating characters. If the flag TOP_F_NOCR is given only
linefeed characters are treated as line-terminating character.
whitespaces at the begin or end of the string are stripped away.
line-comments (from # to end of line) are stripped away as well.
line-comments inside of single or double quotes are not stripped away.
Empty lines are skipped.
.br
If there are no lines any more a NULL-pointer is returned.
Mostly one will use this function in a loop:
.nf
char *ptr = my_buffer;
char *line;
while ((line=top_getline (&ptr, 0))) {
   do_something (line);
}
.fi
.br
.B Note:
The original buffer is modified.
.TP
.B top_getfield
splits a given string into fields. This function works similar then
top_getline, but the field-delimiter-character(s) can be specified.
If more then one character is given as separator, then each of them
works as field-delimiter-character.
Mostly one will use this function together with top_getline(), e.g:
.nf
char *ptr = my_buffer;
char *line, *field;
while ((line=top_getline (&ptr, 0))) {
   while ((field=top_getfield (&line, ":", 0))) {
      do_something (field);
   }
}
.fi
.br
.B Note:
The original buffer is modified.


.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B TOP_F_DQUOTE
if this flag is given, line comments and field separators are ignored 
when inside double quotes. 
When combined with TOP_F_SQUOTE, single
quotes inside double quotes are ignored as well.
.TP
.B TOP_F_SQUOTE
if this flag is given, line comments and field separators are ignored 
when inside single quotes.
When combined with TOP_F_DQUOTE, double
quotes inside single quotes are ignored as well.
.TP
.B TOP_F_STRIPMIDDLE
If this flag is given, white spaces are converted to spaces and
sequences of white spaces in the middle of a 
line are reduced to a single space.
.br
.B Note:
When combined with TOP_F_DQUOTE and/or TOP_F_SQUOTE, whitespaces
inside quotes are converted, too.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOSKIPWHITE
If this flag is given, white spaces at beginning of line are not
skipped.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOSTRIPWHITE
If this flag is given, white spaces at end of line are not stripped
away.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOCR
with this flag, carrage returns are not treated as line-terminating
character (getline only).
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOSKIPBLANK
with this flag blank line are returned. Normally they are skipped.
.br
.B Note:
when your line is terminated by a carrage return / linefeed sequence,
and TOP_F_NOCR is not given, then after each line a blank line
is returned, because getline treats carrage returns equal to linefeed,
and thus sees a blank line between the carrage return and the line feed
character.
.TP
.B TOP_F_NOSKIPCOMMENT
with this flag line comments are not stripped away.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR top_skipwhite "(3fr), "
.BR top_findchar "(3fr), "
.BR errors "(5fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




