.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "top_findchar" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
top_findchar,
top_findstr


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/textop.h>
.sp
.BI "#define TOP_F_NONE          " 0x00
.BI "#define TOP_F_DQUOTE        " 0x01
.BI "#define TOP_F_SQUOTE        " 0x02
.BI "#define TOP_F_STRIPMIDDLE   " 0x04
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPWHITE   " 0x08
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSTRIPWHITE  " 0x10
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOCR          " 0x20
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPBLANK   " 0x40
.BI "#define TOP_F_NOSKIPCOMMENT " 0x80
.sp
.BI "char *top_findchar (char *" ptr ", char *" pivot ", int " flags ");"
.BI "char *top_findstr (char *" ptr ", char *" needle ", int " flags ");"
.sp
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B top_findchar
searches the first appearance of one of the chars given in
.I pivot
in the string 
.IR ptr .
TOP_F_DQUOTE and TOP_F_SQUOTE are honored.
.TP
.B top_findstr
searches the first appearance of the string
.I needle
inside the string
.IR ptr .
TOP_F_DQUOTE and TOP_F_SQUOTE are honored.


.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B TOP_F_DQUOTE
if this flag is given, line comments and field separators are ignored 
when inside double quotes. 
When combined with TOP_F_SQUOTE, single
quotes inside double quotes are ignored as well.
.TP
.B TOP_F_SQUOTE
if this flag is given, line comments and field separators are ignored 
when inside single quotes.
When combined with TOP_F_DQUOTE, double
quotes inside single quotes are ignored as well.
.TP
The other flags don't do nothing with these functions


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR top_getline "(3fr), "
.BR index "(3), "
.BR strchr "(3), "
.BR strstr "(3), "
.BR errors "(5fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




