.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "utf8 strcmp" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
utf8bcmp,
utf8ccmp,
utf8tcmp,
utf8lcmp


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/textop.h>
.sp
.BI "int utf8bcmp (char *" str1 ", char *" str2 ");"
.BI "int utf8ccmp (char *" str1 ", char *" str2 ");"
.BI "int utf8tcmp (char *" str1 ", char *" str2 ");"
.BI "int utf8lcmp (char *" str1 ", char *" str2 ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions compare two strings encoded in utf8.
The return value will be -1, 0 or 1 when the first
string is less than, equal or greater than the second one.
.TP
.B utf8bcmp
performs a byte-wise compare. 
When the strings are normalized, as
they should be according to the utf8 standard, the result is that
of utf8ccmp. For not normalized strings the result will differ.
Then that of utf8ccmp will be the correct result.
However utf8bcmp is much faster than utf8ccmp.
.TP
.B utf8ccmp
performs a character-wise compare. 
When the strings are normalized, as
they should be according to the utf8 standard, the result is that
of utf8bcmp. For not normalized strings the result will differ.
Then that of utf8ccmp will be the correct result.
However utf8bcmp is much faster than utf8ccmp.
.TP
.B utf8tcmp
like utf8ccmp, but honors compose characters. Some characters (e.g.
the german umlauts) can be represented directly or by a sequence of
two or more characters. utf8tcmp treat them equal. Thus utf8tcmp is
closer to the utf8-standard, than the functions above.
.br
.B Note:
This function is not implemented yet, and does return only the result
of utf8ccmp().
.TP
.B utf8lcmp
like utf8tcmp(), but honors local settings, too.
.br
.B Note:
This function is not implemented yet, and does return only the result
of utf8ccmp().


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR utf8clen "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




