.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "cf_isyes" 3fr "26 sep 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"

.SH NAME
cf_isyes,
cf_atoi,
cf_atotm

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
.B #include <fr/base/config.h>
.sp
.BI "int cf_isyes (char * " val ");"
.BI "int cf_atoi (char *" str ");"
.BI "int cf_atotm (char *" str ");"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The function 
.I cf_isyes
returns 
.I 1
if the given value is interpreted as true and 
.I 0
otherwise.
The following values (case insensitive) are interpreted as true:
.IR yes ", " y ", " true ", " 1 ", " ja ", " si " and " oui
.sp
The function
.I cf_atoi
converts the given string to an integer. This function behaves the
same as atoi(3), but returns
.I 0
if a 
.I NULL
pointer is given.
.sp
The function
.I cf_atotm
converts the given string to an integer of type tmo_t. This function behaves the
same as tmo_gettimestr64(3fr), but does not modify the buffer.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr), "
.BR config "(3fr), "
.BR cf_getvar "(3fr), "
.BR tmo_gettimestr64 "(3fr). "




