.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "cf_parse_string" 3fr "26 sep 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"

.SH NAME
cf_parse_string,
cf_parse_table

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
.B #include <fr/base/config.h>
.sp
.BI "int cf_parse_string (char *" str ", int " type ");"
.BI "int cf_parse_table (char *" str ", int32_t **" table ");"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B cf_parse_string
parses a string in the same way the cf_parse function parses the values
assigned to the variable. See frlib.rc(5fr) for details on how these
strings are parsed.
The 
.I type 
parameter can be:
.br
.BR 0 " - "
parsing as if the string would be inside double quotes.
.br
.BR 1 " - "
parsing as if the string would be inside single quotes.
.br
.BR 2 " - "
parsing as if the string would be inside braces.
.br
.BR 3 " - "
parsing as if the string would be inside double quotes, plus \\0
is substituted by a nul-byte.
.sp
The original string is modified!
.TP
.B cf_parse_table
parses a table of unicode characters. The format of this table is
explained in frlib.rc(5fr).
.br
.B Note:
The original string is modified!

.SH RETURN VALUE
The functions do return an error code (RERR_OK (0) if everything is ok).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr), "
.BR config "(3fr)."




