.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "cf_set_cfname" 3fr "26 sep 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"

.SH NAME
cf_default_cfname,
cf_set_cfname,
cf_get_cfname

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
.B #include <fr/base/config.h>
.sp
.B #define CF_FLAG_DEF_NONE	0x00
.B #define CF_FLAG_DEF_USCORE	0x01
.B #define CF_FLAG_NOLOCAL_CF	0x02
.B #define CF_FLAG_NOHOME_CF	0x04
.B #define CF_FLAG_NOGLOBAL_CF	0x08
.sp
.BI "int cf_default_cfname (char*" cfname ", int " flags ");"
.BI "int cf_set_cfname (char*" cfname ");"
.BI "char *cf_get_cfname ();"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The function 
.I cf_default_cfname
does set the base name of the default config file to use. If the given
.I cfname
contains slashes, the basename is used (the string after the last slash).
If the flag 
.I CF_FLAG_DEF_USCORE
is set, the basename of cfname is split at the first underscore, and the
string before that underscore is used as basename of the default config
file. This is usefull if several programms do use the same config file.
All that programmes might start with the basename of the config file,
and the programmes pass argv[0] to cf_default_cfname.
.br
The config file is then searched as
.I ./<basename>.rc
(hence in the current working directory)
then
.I $HOME/.<basename>rc
and finally
.I /etc/<basename>.rc
The first of that files that does exist is used as config file.
.br
If the 
.I CF_FLAG_NOLOCAL_CF 
flag is set, the config file is 
.B not
searched in the current working directory.
If the flag
.I CF_FLAG_NOHOME_CF
is set, the config file is 
.B not
searched in the home directory of the user.
If the flag
.I CF_FLAG_NOGLOBAL_CF
is set, the config file is
.B not
searched in /etc.
.sp
The function
.I cf_set_cfname
sets the config file (with complete path). This setting overwrites the
setting of cf_default_cfname.
.sp
The function
.I cf_get_cfname
does return the name of the config file set by cf_set_cfname. This function
does 
.B not
return the name of the default config file used.
This function is usefull, if you want to pass the config file name to another
programme.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The functions do return an error code (RERR_OK (0) if everything is ok).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr), "
.BR config "(3fr), "
.BR cf_read "(3fr)."




