.\" Copyright 2003-2014 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "frlib" 3fr "22 feb 2010" "Frank Reker" "frlib"

.SH NAME
frlib - a collection of usefull functions and tool written by Frank Reker

.SH HISTORY
During the last years I have written a lot of C and C++ code. A lot
of the functions I have written doess serve a general purpose, hence are
usable outside the scope of the project they were written for. 
Furthermore I had several versions of the same code in different
projects.
I have now collocted these functions and put into a single library, that
I called frlib.
In addition the frlib contains a couple of tools that are correlated to
the library.


.SH LICENSE
  This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
  License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
  file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

 Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
 WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
 for more details governing rights and limitations under the License.

 The Original Code is part of the frlib.

 The Initial Developer of the Original Code is
 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>.
 Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 2003-2014
 by the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.


.SH USING THE LIBRARY IN YOUR PROJECT
Both the static and the shared library
can be used by opensource and by commercial products.
See the license for more detail. The frlib is licensed under
the MPL version 2.0 wich is compatible to (L)GPL.


.SH OPERATING SYSTEMS
The frlib is written and tested under Linux(tr) (32 and 64bit Intel
plattforms). Most functions are tested under SunOS(tr) and Cygwin(tr)
as well. The library in whole has not been tested on these plattforms.


.SH DESCRIPTION
The library is devided into several subsections which are described
separately. These are:
.TP
.B base
A collection of general purpose functions. Functions in other sections
do make use of base functions. See:
.B frlib_base(3fr)
.TP
.B shm
Functions for handling shared memory. See:
.B shm(3fr)
.TP
.B buffer
A collection of buffer handling functions. See:
.B buffer(3fr)
.TP
.B xml
Contains an xml parser. See:
.B xml(3fr)
.TP
.B connect
Functions for handling inter process communications in the form of
tcp/ip, unix sockets, pipes, serial port communication, a.s.o.
See:
.B connect(3fr)
.TP
.B mail
Functions for parsing and generating emails. See
.B mail(3fr)
.TP
.B spool
Contains functions for spooling files to disk for later elaboration. These
functions are rarely used directly. But there are a lot of tools included
in the frlib, that do handle spooling. See:
.B spool(3fr)
.TP
.B registry
Contains functions for accessing the windows registry. These functions are
only available when compiled under MS-Windows(tr). When compiled with 
.I INCLUDE_FAKE_REGISTRY
set to yes, these functions are available on Non-Windows systems as well,
implemented on top of berkley-db. The only purpose is, that you can develope
your software under linux and later compile it on windows(tr). Outside
of this scope these functions are of little use on Non-Windows systems.
Therefore they are disabled by default.
See:
.B registry(3fr)
.TP
.B cal
Contains calendar and time based functions. See:
.B cal(3fr)
.TP
.B cc
A collection of C++ classes. Most of them are C++ bindings for the corresponding
C functions.
See:
.B frlib_cc(3fr)
.TP
.B tools
As mentioned earlier the frlib contains a collection of tools as well. See:
.B frlib_tools(1fr)
.TP
.B config
Even thu part of the base section, it is worth to mention it here. The frlib contains
a very powerfull config file parser (See:
.BR config "(3fr))."
A couple of frlib functions do make use of that and request variables from the 
config files, to make its behaviour configurable. See 
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr) "
for the format of the config file and for a set of config variables used by
the frlib.

.SH MULTITHREADING
Not all functions in the frlib are thread safe. This does not mean, that the 
library is unusable in multithreading environments, but only, that special
care has to be taken. See the individual man pages for more information.

.SH INSTALLING
See 
.B INSTALL(5fr)
for more details.

.SH BUGS
Please send bugreports to (Frank Reker) frank (at) reker (dot) net.
Explain the problem as detailed as possible and give code examples that
demonstrate the bug as far as possible.

Not everything is documented yet. Some of the man pages mentioned above
do not exist yet.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib_base "(3fr), "
.BR shm "(3fr), "
.BR buffer "(3fr), "
.BR connect "(3fr), "
.BR xml "(3fr), "
.BR mail "(3fr), "
.BR registry "(3fr), "
.BR spool "(3fr), "
.BR frlib_cc "(3fr), "
.BR frlib_tools "(1fr), "
.BR config "(3fr), "
.BR INSTALL "(5fr), "
.BR frlib.log "(5fr), "
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr)."




