.\" Copyright 2003-2010 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "INSTALL" 5fr "22 feb 2010" "Frank Reker" "frlib"

.SH DOCUMENT
This document describes how to compile and install the frlib and its
components.

.SH COMPILE
To compile run
.B make dep
to create the dependencies.
Then run
.B make
to make the libraries and tools.
.br
The make dep requires the tool makedepend.
If you don't have installed it, delete all
dependency files by:
.nf
find ./ -name .depend -exec rm -f \{\} \;
.fi
Consider however that then, when modifying some files you need to call
.I make clean 
in order to be sure that everything is recompiled correctly.
.sp
The makefiles are organized in a manner that you can call them from every subdirectory
to make only that part. Hence they are autonomous and don't depend from other
makefiles; apart of Makefile.config in the main directory. Here you can set some
global settings, that effect the compilation.
.sp
The frlib does not provide a configure script yet, so you have to edit the
makefiles directly if you want to modify anything.

.SS Makefile.config
The Makefile.config resides in the base directory of frlib and contains some global
settings, that effect the compilation.
.TP
.B USE_DEBUG
if set to 
.IR yes ", "
a debug version of the frlib and its tool is compiled (non optimized with debugging
symbols in it).
If set to no, optimization is activated and the binary is stripped.
.TP
.B USE_EFENCE
if set to 
.IR yes ", "
the tools are linked against libduma (the successor of efence), which is a malloc
debugger.
.TP
.B INCLUDE_FAKE_REGISTRY
if set to
.IR yes ", "
the registry functions are made available on Non-Windows systems. These are implemented
using the berkley db, so you need to install it, and link your binary against it.

.SS DEPENDENCIES
The frlib makes use of the dynamic linker library (libdl), so you need to link
your programme against it, when linking with the frlib.
I.e. pass
.B -lfr -ldl
to your linker.
The frlib makes use of other libraries, such as openssl (libssl and libcrypto) 
as well. But they are loaded dynamically as needed. So you need to install them
only if you do use functions that makes use of them. Those libraries are:
.IR librt " (real time), " libm " (math), " libssl ", " libcrypto " and " 
.IR libstdc++ .
The latter one is used to demangle c++ names in the logger. 
So even the C functions make use of it, but will work as 
well when the lib cannot be loaded.


.SH INSTALL
.SS The Library
The make process does create a static library frlib.a and a shared library frlib.so.
You need to copy those into a directory where your linker can find it 
(e.g. /usr/local/lib), and then call ldconfig (as root). Alternatively you can make
use of the LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable.

.SS The Header Files
After compilation you can find the header files in lib/include/.
Copy the whole content to a location where your compiler can find them. (E.g.:
/usr/local/include/fr/), or use the -I option to pass the path to your c compiler.


.SH USING THE LIB
To use the header files one should include them by section
.nf
#include <fr/base.h>
#include <fr/xml.h>
.fi
or individual
.nf
#include <fr/base/config.h>
#include <fr/base/slog.h>
.fi

.SH THE DOCUMENTATION
To create the documentation, go to the subdirectory 
.I doc/man
and call
.BR make ". "
Then the man pages can be found in out/man*
Invoke
.BR "make man-install" 
to copy them to /usr/local/man/
.br
/usr/local/man shall be in your MANPATH. If not, edit 
.I /etc/man.config
The man pages of the frlib are in the sections 1fr, 3fr and 5fr.
To search these sections automatically you need to modify
your MANSECT in /etc/man.config.
It should look somewhat like that:
.B 0p:1:1p:1fr:8:2:3:3p:3pm:3fr:4:5:5fr:6:7:9:tcl:n:l:p:o

.SS The HTML Stuff
Running 
.I make html
from doc/man does generate browsable html pages from the man pages.
These can be found in out/html/



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




