.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "file operation" 3fr "11 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
fop_read_fn,
fop_read_fn2,
fop_read_file,
fop_read_file2,
fop_read_fd,
fop_read_fd2


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/fileop.h>
.sp
.BI "char * fop_read_fn (char *" fname ");"
.BI "char * fop_read_fn2 (char *" fname ", int *" flen ");"
.BI "char * fop_read_file (FILE *" f ");"
.BI "char * fop_read_file2 (FILE *" f ", int *" flen ");"
.BI "char * fop_read_fd (int " fd ");"
.BI "char * fop_read_fd2 (int " fd ", int *" flen ");"
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a file into memory allocating its buffer, which is returned.
In case of error a NULL pointer is returned.
.br
The functions
.IR fop_read_fn " and " fop_read_fn2
take the file name as input.
The functions
.IR fop_read_file " and " fop_read_file2
take a FILE pointer of an already opened file as input.
And the functions
.IR fop_read_fd " and " fop_read_fd2
take a file descriptor of an already opened file as input.
.br
The functions with 2 at the end do return the length of the file into the
parameter
.IR flen ;
interesting for binary files.
All functions do NUL-terminate the buffer. The length however is without
the terminating NUL byte.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fop_mkdir_rec "(3fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




