.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "md5sum" 3fr "13 dec 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
md5sum

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/md5sum.h>
.sp
.BI "#define MD5SUM_FLAG_NONE   " 0
.BI "#define MD5SUM_FLAG_B64    " 1
.BI "#define MD5SUM_FLAG_HEX    " 2
.BI "#define MD5SUM_FLAG_BIN    " 3
.BI "#define MD5SUM_MASK_FORMAT " 3
.BI "#define MD5SUM_FLAG_NOEQ   " 4
.BI "#define MD5SUM_FLAG_CAPS   " 8
.sp
.BI "int md5sum (char *" hash ", char *" msg ", int " msglen ", int " flag ");"
.fi



.SH DESCRIPTION
md5sum takes a message (
.IR msg )
of size
.I msglen
as input and calculates a md5 hash value, which is written to 
.IR hash .
The buffer for hash needs to be preallocated and needs to be
at least 16 bytes long when written in binary (see the flag 
section for more information about the format) format, 33 bytes
when written in hexadecimal and 25 bytes when written in base64
format. The default format is base64 with equal signs.

.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B MD5SUM_FLAG_B64
Using this flag the output is coded in base64 format. (This is even
the default if no other format is given). The output will be
NUL-terminated.
.TP
.B MD5SUM_FLAG_HEX
Using this flag the output will be coded in hexadicimal.
The output will be NUL-terminated.
.TP
.B MD5SUM_FLAG_BIN
Using this flag the output will be uncoded in binary format.
The output won't be NUL-terminated.
.TP
.B MD5SUM_MASK_FORMAT
This macro can be used to mask out the format part from the flags.
.TP
.B MD5SUM_FLAG_NOEQ
Using this flag when encoding in base64 format, the final equal signs
are omitted. 
For other formats this flag has no effect.
.TP
.B MD5SUM_FLAG_CAPS
Using this flag when encoding in hexadecimal, letters are in upper
case.
For other formats this flag has no effect.

.SH BUGS
The md5 checksum is vulnerable, thus you should use other algorithms, such 
as sha1 or sha256 checksum, when security matters.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.rc "(5fr), "
.BR frlib "(3fr)."




