.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "frlogf" 5fr "26 sep 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
frlogf

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/slog.h>
.sp
.BI "extern int SLOG_H_FRLIB;"
.BI "int frlogf (int " level ", char *" fmt ", ...);"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.I frlogf
is identical to 
.I shlogf (SLOG_H_FRLIB, level, fmt, ...);
only, that at its first call the handle SLOG_H_FRLIB is initialized.
.sp
The frlib internally does use the module 
.IR """frlib""" .
The handle SLOG_H_FRLIB then does point to the settings for that module.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function does return an error code (RERR_OK (0) if everything is ok).

.SH NOTE
Note, that this function is for usage of the frlib itself. You should not
use this function, nor that handle, outside the scope of the frlib.
However, if you do write extentions to the frlib, do use frlogf for logging.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.log "(5fr), " errors "(5fr), " syslog "(3), "
.BR slog "(3fr), "
.BR slogf "(3fr), "
.BR slog_reconfig "(3fr)."




