.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "slog" 5fr "26 sep 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
slogf,
vslogf,
slogstr,
smlogf,
vsmlogf,
smlogstr,
shlogf,
vshlogf,
shlogstr

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/slog.h>
.sp
.BI "int slogf (int " level ", char *" fmt ", ...);"
.BI "int vslogf (int " level ", char *" fmt ", va_list " ap ");"
.BI "int slogstr (int " level ", char *" msg ");"
.sp
.BI "int smlogf (char *" module ", int " level ", char *" fmt ", ...);"
.BI "int vsmlogf (char *" module ", int " level ", char *" fmt ", va_list " ap ");"
.BI "int smlogstr (char *" module ", int " level ", char *" msg ");"
.sp
.BI "int shlogf (int " handle ", int " level ", char *" fmt ", ...);"
.BI "int vshlogf (int " handle ", int " level ", char *" fmt ", va_list " ap ");"
.BI "int shlogstr (int " handle ", int " level ", char *" msg ");"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
These function serve for writing log messages to a logfile. Furthermore
they can write to /dev/console and to syslog if configured. 
The destinations to log to are determined by the config file, as well
as the minimum log level to write to. The configuration is quite
powerfull and allow distinguisching between different programmes and
modules.
.br
The most important functions are 
.IR slogf ", " smlogf " and " shlogf .
The 
.IR "sm- " and " sh- "
versions allow the specification of modules, while the 
.I "s- "
version uses global settings (without module specifications).
.sp
The
.I "sm- "
version takes the module name as argument, while the
.I "sh- "
version takes an handle as argument, which you need to acquire using 
slog_gethandle(3fr). Working with handles is somewhat faster.
.sp
The 
.I "v- "
version is for usage inside a function with variable argument list.
And the 
.I "-str"
version takes a non formated string as input, which is slightly faster.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The functions do return an error code (RERR_OK (0) if everything is ok).

.SH NOTE
Repeating log messages are written only once. When a different message 
is to be logged, a message "The last message repeated n times" is logged.
To achieve this message for the last message before programme termination
you may use slogfinish(3fr).


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.log "(5fr), " errors "(5fr), " syslog "(3), "
.BR slog "(3fr), "
.BR slog_gethandle "(3fr), "
.BR slogfinish "(3fr)."




