.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "slog_set_prog" 5fr "26 sep 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
slog_set_prog,
slog_get_prog,
slog_setpid

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/slog.h>
.sp
.BI "int slog_set_prog (char *" prog ");"
.BI "char *slog_get_prog ();"
.BI "int slog_setpid (int " pid ");"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B slog_set_prog ()
sets the programme name to be printed to the config file. This
function is implicitely invoked by frinit(3fr).
.TP
.B slog_get_prog ()
returns the programme name set.
.TP
.B slog_setpid ()
sets the process id to be printed to the logfile. Normally this is 
automatically set by getpid(2).

.SH RETURN VALUE
slog_get_prog returns the programme name or NULL if none has been set.
.br
The other functions do return an error code (RERR_OK (0) if everything is ok).


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.log "(5fr), " errors "(5fr), " syslog "(3), "
.BR slog "(3fr), "
.BR slogf "(3fr), "
.BR frinit "(3fr)."




