.\" Copyright 2003-2009 Frank Reker <frank@reker.net>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH "slog" 5fr "26 sep 2009" "Frank Reker" "frlib"
.SH NAME
slog_gethandle,
slog_releasehandle.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fr/base/slog.h>
.sp
.BI "int slog_gethandle (char *" module ");"
.BI "void slog_releasehandle (int " handle ");"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B slog_gethandle
takes a module name as argument and returns a handle to the configuration
settings for that module. Working with handles is somewhat faster then
working directly with the module name, thu the difference is not big.
.TP
.B slog_releasehandle
releases a handle prior returned by slog_gethandle, so that it can
be deleted by a reread of the configuration file. In case it is not
released, the handle remains valid even thu an individual configuration
for that module does not exist anymore. The programme still behaves
correctly, only that some memory remains allocated unneccessarily,
which however is not critical.


.SH RETURN VALUE
slog_gethandle do return a handle which is greater or equal zero.
On failure an error code is returned.
.br
slog_releasehandle
doesn't return anything.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frlib.log "(5fr), " errors "(5fr), " syslog "(3), "
.BR slog "(3fr), "
.BR shlogf "(3fr)."




